README.md, before:

# `elm-pages` [![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/8ee4a674-4f37-4f16-b99e-607c0a02ee75/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/elm-pages/deploys) [![Build Status](https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/workflows/Elm%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/actions?query=branch%3Amaster) [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/elm-pages.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/elm-pages) [![Elm package](https://img.shields.io/elm-package/v/dillonkearns/elm-pages.svg)](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/dillonkearns/elm-pages/latest/)

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-5-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages-starter)

A **statically typed** site generator, written with pure Elm.

## Getting Started Resources

- [elm-pages Docs Site](https://elm-pages.com/docs)
- [elm-pages Elm API Docs](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/dillonkearns/elm-pages/latest/)
- [Quick start repo](https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages-starter) [(live site hosted here)](https://elm-pages-starter.netlify.com)
- [Introducing `elm-pages` blog post](https://elm-pages.com/blog/introducing-elm-pages)
- [`examples` folder](https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/blob/master/examples/) (includes https://elm-pages.com site source)

## Key features

### SEO made easy

With `elm-pages`, SEO is as easy
as calling a type-safe, high-level Elm API
and passing in data from your content's metadata.

The metadata is just Elm data that you define
however you want, using a Json Decoder to grab
data out of your markdown frontmatter.

```elm
import MyMetadata exposing (MyMetadata)

head : BlogMetadata -> List (Head.Tag Pages.PathKey)
head meta =
  Seo.summaryLarge
    { canonicalUrlOverride = Nothing
    , siteName = "elm-pages"
    , image =
      { url = PagesNew.images.icon
      , alt = meta.description
      , dimensions = Nothing
      , mimeType = Nothing
      }
    , description = meta.description
    , locale = Nothing
    , title = meta.title
    }
    |> Seo.article
      { tags = []
      , section = Nothing
      , publishedTime = Just (Date.toIsoString meta.published)
      , modifiedTime = Nothing
      , expirationTime = Nothing
      }
```

### Optimized for performance

`elm-pages` has a set of features built-in to make
sure your page is blazing fast on any device.

- Automatic page pre-rendering
- Page content is split up per-page so page content downloads and parses just-in-time
- Page pre-fetching on link hover

Try out `elm-pages`, open up Lighthouse, and
see for yourself! Or check out https://elm-pages.com
(find the source code in the [`examples/docs/`](https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/tree/master/examples/docs) folder).


## What's next?

Take a look at the current projects to see the current priorities!

https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/projects

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/danmarcab"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1517969?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Daniel Marín</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/commits?author=danmarcab" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://citric.id"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/296665?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Steven Vandevelde</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/commits?author=icidasset" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Y0hy0h"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/11377826?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Johannes Maas</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#userTesting-Y0hy0h" title="User Testing">📓</a> <a href="https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/commits?author=Y0hy0h" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/vViktorPL"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/2961541?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Wiktor Toporek</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/commits?author=vViktorPL" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://sunrisemovement.com"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/1508245?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Luke Westby</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/commits?author=lukewestby" title="Code">💻</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-enable -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

Commit message:

Add note about currentCompatibilityKey and add current value as JSON.

README.md, after:

# `elm-pages` [![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/8ee4a674-4f37-4f16-b99e-607c0a02ee75/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/elm-pages/deploys) [![Build Status](https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/workflows/Elm%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/actions?query=branch%3Amaster) [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/elm-pages.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/elm-pages) [![Elm package](https://img.shields.io/elm-package/v/dillonkearns/elm-pages.svg)](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/dillonkearns/elm-pages/latest/)

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->

[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-5-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages-starter)

A **statically typed** site generator, written with pure Elm.

## Getting Started Resources

- [elm-pages Docs Site](https://elm-pages.com/docs)
- [elm-pages Elm API Docs](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/dillonkearns/elm-pages/latest/)
- [Quick start repo](https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages-starter) [(live site hosted here)](https://elm-pages-starter.netlify.com)
- [Introducing `elm-pages` blog post](https://elm-pages.com/blog/introducing-elm-pages)
- [`examples` folder](https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/blob/master/examples/) (includes https://elm-pages.com site source)

## Key features

### SEO made easy

With `elm-pages`, SEO is as easy
as calling a type-safe, high-level Elm API
and passing in data from your content's metadata.

The metadata is just Elm data that you define
however you want, using a Json Decoder to grab
data out of your markdown frontmatter.

```elm
import MyMetadata exposing (MyMetadata)

head : BlogMetadata -> List (Head.Tag Pages.PathKey)
head meta =
  Seo.summaryLarge
    { canonicalUrlOverride = Nothing
    , siteName = "elm-pages"
    , image =
      { url = PagesNew.images.icon
      , alt = meta.description
      , dimensions = Nothing
      , mimeType = Nothing
      }
    , description = meta.description
    , locale = Nothing
    , title = meta.title
    }
    |> Seo.article
      { tags = []
      , section = Nothing
      , publishedTime = Just (Date.toIsoString meta.published)
      , modifiedTime = Nothing
      , expirationTime = Nothing
      }
```

### Optimized for performance

`elm-pages` has a set of features built-in to make
sure your page is blazing fast on any device.

- Automatic page pre-rendering
- Page content is split up per-page so page content downloads and parses just-in-time
- Page pre-fetching on link hover

Try out `elm-pages`, open up Lighthouse, and
see for yourself! Or check out https://elm-pages.com
(find the source code in the [`examples/docs/`](https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/tree/master/examples/docs) folder).

## What's next?

Take a look at the current projects to see the current priorities!

https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/projects

## Compatibility Key

You will see an error if the NPM and Elm package do not have a matching Compatibility Key. Usually it's best to upgrade to the latest version of both the Elm and NPM
packages when you upgrade. However, in case you want to install versions that are behind the latest, the Compatibility Key is included here for reference.

Current Compatibility Key: 1.

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/danmarcab"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1517969?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Daniel Marín</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/commits?author=danmarcab" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://citric.id"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/296665?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Steven Vandevelde</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/commits?author=icidasset" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Y0hy0h"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/11377826?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Johannes Maas</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#userTesting-Y0hy0h" title="User Testing">📓</a> <a href="https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/commits?author=Y0hy0h" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/vViktorPL"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/2961541?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Wiktor Toporek</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/commits?author=vViktorPL" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://sunrisemovement.com"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/1508245?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Luke Westby</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/dillonkearns/elm-pages/commits?author=lukewestby" title="Code">💻</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-enable -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!
